# Carbon-in-your-hand
Our project is about the carbon footprint and greenhouse gas emissions. We will make an app. The app will help to calculate the carbon footprint for the individuals. And they will be able to know what are the resources of the greenhouse gas in detail. And we will put a page about how to reduce the carbon footprint in modern ways. We will put a map for the earth that shows the quantity of the greenhouse gas emissions in each place and we will put a rank with the countries according to the emissions and we will put a place to share their stories about reducing the greenhouse gas emissions to inspire people to do the same.
## What Is Our Carbon Footprint?
Your challenge is to identify local sources of carbon emissions and/or estimate amounts of carbon emissions for different human activities to aid scientists in mapping carbon sources and sinks. How can you inform decisions to adapt to the consequences of a changing world and aid policy makers in making plans for the future?
# How We Addressed This Challenge
Our project has some goals and these goals are really important such as spreading the knowledge about what is the carbon footprint because really a lot of people don’t have any idea about what is the carbon footprint and this in itself is a big disaster because the first step in solving any problem is to know what is the problem because you cannot fight something without knowing why are you fighting this thing and what is this thing mainly.

So, we are trying to achieve the first step in solving the problem which is helping others to know what is the carbon footprint and after helping them to know that we will move to the second step which is clarifying the huge damage which will happen because of increasing of this carbon footprint and also we have to make sure that the people understood very well the risk which is threating all the planet so, when the people understand this they will begin to ask or claim that he is not a part of this disaster and he is really innocent.

So, we will have to help him knowing if he is really a part or not and we are planning to achieve this necessary thing by providing a ( carbon footprint calculator ) as we call it so he will give us some data about his using of carbon then we will calculate his carbon footprint then he can know How influential is he in the disaster and if it is found that he is a big part of the problem then of course we are not going to leave him alone but we will help him to reduce his influence by giving him some advice to reduce his usage of carbon and if everyone contributed in this we will make a respectable difference in the problem and the threaten of the carbon footprint on the earth and this is the best for the individual person and for the whole earth.
# How We Developed This Project
First of all, we chose this challenge (the carbon footprint) because we know the importance of a challenge like that and how our beloved earth suffers from the carbon. And we believe in our role to make our earth better and save it from this danger. We worked on how to spread the knowledge about something like that and make them know how to reduce their carbon footprint. We make an app to do several things in the same place. The app will help to calculate the carbon footprint for the individuals by putting places in the app to write the usage of the products that emit greenhouse gas and we will put codes with equations to calculate the carbon footprint. And they will be able to know what are the resources of the greenhouse gas emissions like the transportation, the electricity production, industry and the agriculture but in details. And we will put a page about how to reduce the carbon footprint with modern ways like 5R’s of zero waste, bike more drive less, conserve water and protect our water ways, eat seasonally, locally and more plants and switch to sustainable, clean energy. We will put a map for the earth that shows the quantity of the greenhouse gas emissions in each place and we will put a rank with the countries according to the emissions and we will put a place to share their stories about reducing the greenhouse gas emissions to inspire people to do the same. And all of this is by the resources of NASA and the other agencies. We faced some problems like how to design the app and how to put the calculations in codes in the app but with the grace of God and the good work of this great team we solved these problems.
# How We Used Space Agency Data in This Project
Firstly, to calculate the carbon footprint, we opened the carbon calculators found in the resources of this challenge. After dealing with these calculators, we could understand the used equations and the scientific ways used to calculate the carbon footprint. We modified these equations to be more accurate so we can depend on them during our project. Secondly, to reduce the carbon footprint in some ways and present these ways in an interactive and lovely way in our app. During this COVID-19 pandemic, all of us started to depend on his phone more and more to be connected with the world. So, we believed that our phones can change our habits, help us with our jobs, and remind us to do many things. So, we decided to make a phone application and use it to present all the reminders and recommendations to reduce the carbon footprint. From the data provided by NASA and its agencies, we could figure out all the resources of carbon. Thus, we put a lot of recommendations and reminders to reduce the carbon footprint. Thirdly, we want to make a map for the earth that shows the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions. We studied all the maps presented by NASA and its agencies. We worked on developing these maps and make it more interactive with the users of our application. So, all the ages can use our app even who don’t know anything about science. Fourthly, we believed that showing evidence to the people is the best way to convince them. From this advice, we decided to make a chatting room in our app to let the people communicate with each other and share their success stories with reducing the carbon footprint.
## Project Demo
https://salahdinahmedsalhrezk775464.invisionapp.com/console/share/PN1M7RB1JU/483362335
## Data & Resources
https://www3.epa.gov/carbon-footprint-calculator/

https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/sources-greenhouse-gas-emissions#transportation

https://www.goingzerowaste.com/blog/5-ways-to-reduce-your-carbon-footprint/

https://climate.nasa.gov/earth-apps/

https://worldview.earthdata.nasa.gov/?v=-393.0967443662245,-208.84507577925476,375.2782556337755,142.71742422074524&t=2019-02-01-T00%3A00%3A00Z&l=Reference_Labels(hidden),Reference_Features(hidden),Coastlines,MERRA2_Dust_Surface_Mass_Concentration_Monthly,MERRA2_Dust_Surface_Mass_Concentration_PM25_Monthly(hidden),MERRA2_Total_Dust_Deposition_Dry_Wet_Monthly(hidden),VIIRS_SNPP_CorrectedReflectance_TrueColor(hidden),MODIS_Aqua_CorrectedReflectance_TrueColor(hidden),MODIS_Terra_CorrectedReflectance_TrueColor(hidden)&tr=dust_storms_overview_2019

https://climate.nasa.gov/news/2961/new-3d-view-of-methane-tracks-sources-and-movement-around-the-globe/
